>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
let's talk about bubble sort and then,
in the interest of time, we are just
gonna hop and merge sort after this.
There are solutions on the interweb
that you can peek through.
If you have questions, I'll take
questions you know whenever about them.
But we want to get to the needy
stuff which is our recursive sorts
because these are slow.
They're,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: They're slow.
They're not as useful, but
it's a good introduction.
Cool?
Here's our bubbleSort.
So our bubbleSort has this concept of
a wall, which is the end of the array.
The reason we do that is because
the end of the array after each
pass Is gonna be sorted.
So the wall, after each pass,
will be decremented.
And the array becomes more and
more sorted, so it goes backwards.
So that's our wall,
we start at the length of the array.
And while it's greater
that are equaled in 0.
We're gonna loop,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Loop until the wall.
If it's bigger than the one on the left,
we swap them.
Some people were asking
about swap routines.
We have one over here that kind of fancy.
It's a Bitwise swap.
You can swap however you want.
It doesn't really matter.
So we're gonna swap it.
Once you get through it,
decrement the wall.
[SOUND] Keeps going, keeps going.
We're gonna return sorted array
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Who got through
the bubble sort?
All righty, cool.
Did anyone do it differently?
>> Speaker 2: Did nest the four loops?
That's what we did.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: DId nest a four loops
instead of a y loop and a 4 loop.
>> Speaker 2: Mm hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, anything else?
Any big key takeaways here?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No?
How did you find that, was that
a challenge, was that intermediate?
Or was it straight forward
in your experience?
>> Speaker 2: This one seemed the most
straight forward of the three.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, yeah.
I would agree, cool.
Anyone else?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Anyone find this
difficult?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No,
no-one's gonna admit that
in front of everyone.
I think it's hard if you've
never done it before.
Yeah.
Once you do it, then you have it.
You have it in your pocket and
it's not as hard the second time.
It's not as hard the third time.
I think the second time you do something,
often it's just as hard as the first time.
But once you get down to the third time,
you're good to go.
I used that.
>> Speaker 2: So
did you name your variable, wall,
so that's it's stopping the loop.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm,
mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, yep.